Message-ID: <bnews.cca.805>
Newsgroups: net.general
Path: utzoo!decvax!cca!z
X-Path: utzoo!decvax!cca!z
From: cca!z
Date: Sat May 15 00:51:24 1982
Subject: Re: emacs info!
Posted: Fri May 14 09:11:23 1982
Received: Sat May 15 00:51:24 1982

I have discovered from my response to the original request for info on
EMACS that many people are unaware that I also have an EMACS which runs
on VAXes.  So, here is the information once again:

My EMACS differs from Gosling's in that is much more of a clone of
ITS/TOPS-20 EMACS, to the point that much of the documentation is
identical.  It has also implemented the vast majority of commands
available in TOPS-20 EMACS, which is several times as many as are
available in Gosling's.  Some of the major features it has that
Gosling's doesn't are a tutorial, a full help facility, complete Lisp
and C modes, a complete set of sentence and paragraph commands, crash
recovery, named kill buffers (Q-registers), an undo command virtually
identical to vi's, commands to kill and copy rectangular areas, and a
mode designed for drawing pictures.  Its major drawback compared to
Gosling's is that although it has keyboard macros, it doesn't yet have a
Lisp-like extension language, though this is being worked on.

My EMACS has been aimed at a broader audience than Gosling's, and
reactions to its user interface have been far more favorable.  Here at
CCA, 89% of our vi users and 50% of our Rand editor users have switched
to EMACS since it was introduced a year ago, and all new users since
that time, from secretaries to programmers to managers, have learned
EMACS as their editor.

If you have access to the Arpanet and would like EMACS, you can simply
FTP to CCA, login as "anonymous" with any password, and copy the entire
contents of the subdirectories emacs/src and emacs/lib.  Otherwise, you
can mail me a tape along with a self-addressed, STAMPED mailing
envelope, and I'll mail you back a tar tape of EMACS.  My address is:

	Steven Zimmerman
	Computer Corporation of America
	575 Technology Square
	Cambridge, Mass. 02139
