Message-ID: <bnews.ihnss.1395>
Newsgroups: net.emacs
Path: utzoo!decvax!harpo!ihnp4!ihnss!warren
X-Path: utzoo!decvax!harpo!ihnp4!ihnss!warren
From: ihnss!warren
Date: Wed Jan 19 07:05:51 1983
Subject: "btl emacs"
Posted: Mon Jan 17 14:52:06 1983
Received: Wed Jan 19 07:05:51 1983
Reply-To: warren@ihnss.UUCP (Warren Montgomery)

Just to complete the roster, I thought I should mention the emacs
variant that I wrote and that has wide distribution inside of Bell
Labs.  It is not as feature rich as Gosling's or Zimmerman's emacs,
though it does provide a basic set of capabilities (Multi-window,
Multi-file, regions, kill stack, etc.) plus an extension language. 
(The extension language is not nearly as nice as m-lisp, but will
let you do some rather hairy hacking, and it does come with a set of
macro packages for such things as RMAIL, spelling correction,
abbreviations, etc.

The main point of interest about it is that it was designed for a
small address space (pdp-11), and thus runs well in a small amount
of space and isn't particulary fussy about the operating system it
runs under.  The display update is reasonably quick and it can run
either with termcap, or with it's own extensible terminal support
database.

The hitch is that it is not in the public domain, and at this point
is available only inside of the Bell System.  The Unix folks are exploring
the possibility of licensing it for other use.  They usually want
money in return for such nuisance.  They tell me that deals
involving lots of machines in one contract, or a distributor that
packages software in systems that are then sold, work best, since
the overhead of writing the contract is spread over lots of copies.
I can promise nothing about the potential availability or cost of my
emacs in this way.  If you are seriously interested in this, feel
free to send a request either to me or to the Murray Hill computing
information librarian.  Please include your name, affiliation,
what you would be willing to pay, and some description of your
application.


		Warren Montgomery
		Room 6E-338
		Bell Laboratories
		Naperville Road
		Naperville, ILL 60566
		(ihnss!warren)
